# MBW Zoo Dataset

By: [Mosam Dabhi](TODO:url) `<mdabhi@andrew.cmu.edu>`

As part of this work making dataset collection more easy and amenable in a wildly unconstrained setup, we collected a dataset of zoo animals using smartphone grade cameras, and annotated (~2\%) of the collected frames with 2D keypoint landmarks. We call this dataset the **Multiview Bootstrapping in the wild (MBW) Zoo dataset**; what follows below is the [datasheet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.09010) describing this data. If you use this dataset, please acknowledge it by citing the original paper.


## Motivation


1. **For what purpose was the dataset created?** *(Was there a specific task in mind? Was there a specific gap that needed to be filled? Please provide a description.)*

    This dataset was created to generate 2D and 3D labels of articulated objects in unconstrained settings. Such unconstrained and casually collected datasets have a wide variety of applications including entertainment, neuroscience, psychology, ethology, and many fields of medicine. Large offline labeled datasets do not exist for all but the most common articulated object categories (e.g., humans, hands, cars). Hand labeling these landmarks within a video sequence is a laborious task. Learned landmark detectors can help, but can be error-prone when trained from only a few examples. Although the main contribution of the paper is a framework that could be used to generate labels and dataset, we provide this dataset as a proof-of-concept that our approach is able to generate 2D and 3D labels in very challenging scenarios where previous approaches fail to provide reasonable labels. 
    
    This dataset is a proof-of-concept to show that all the user require is a few handheld videos and 2D labels for ~15 frames per video. No other camera intrinsics or extrinsics information is required and we are able to generate labels as shown in the given dataset.
    


1. **Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?**
    
    This dataset was created by Mosam Dabhi. At the time of creation, Mosam is a graduate student at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
    


1. **Who funded the creation of the dataset?** *(If there is an associated grant, please provide the name of the grantor and the grant name and number.)*

    Funding for Mosam was provided through the Robotics Institute department at CMU; the annotations in the dataset were hand labeled by Mosam.


1. **Any other comments?**
    
    None.





## Composition


1. **What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent (e.g., documents, photos, people, countries)?** *(Are there multiple types of instances (e.g., movies, users, and ratings; people and interactions between them; nodes and edges)? Please provide a description.)*

    Each instance is an image of an articulated object (zoo animals, birds, and fish). Approximately 2-5% of images have corresponding manual 2D landmark annotation. From here on, we use the term landmark prediction and label interchangeably for convenience. For the remaining images in the sequences, the 2D and 3D landmark labels, as well as bounding box crops labels are generated by *MBW*. In particular, each entity also has a flag *reliable_annotation* that is a boolean specifying how much reliable is the label generated by MBW.



2. **How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?**
    
    The dataset consists of instances from 5 different object categories:
     * Fish: This instance consists of 1456 image frames captured from 2 camera views. Total instances in this category are 2912.
     * Clownfish: This instance consists of 910 image frames captured from 2 camera views. Total instances in this category are 1820.
     * Colobus Monkey: This instance consists of 392 image frames captured from 2 camera views. Total instances in this category are 784.
     * Tiger: This instance consists of 2011 image frames captured from 2 camera views. Total instances in this category are 4022.
     * Chimpanzee: This instance consists of 204 image frames captured from 2 camera views. Total instances in this category are 408.
     * Turtle: This instance consists of 2807 image frames captured from 2 camera views. Total instances in this category are 5614.
     * Seahorse: This instance consists of 480 image frames captured from 2 camera views. Total instances in this category are 960.

    In total, there are **16520** instances in this dataset. The overall dataset statistics below reflect the above description:

    | Object        | #Frames/view | #Views | #2D G.T. | # Keypoints | % Labeled Iter 0 | % Labeled Iter 2
    | :---          | :---:        | :---:  | :---:    |  :---:   |   :---:   | :---:   |
    | Fish          | 1456         |   2    |   40     |    12      |   2.7%     | 95% |
    | Colobus Monkey| 392          |   2    |   20     |    16      |   5.1%     |  95% |      
    | Tiger         | 1829         |   2    |   8      |    14      |   0.4%     |95% |            
    | Chimpanzee    | 204          |   2    |   13     |    16      |   6.3%     | 95% |               
    | Seahorse      | 480          |   2    |   15     |     6      |  3.1%     |  95% |   
    | Clownfish     | 910          |   2    |   20     |    4     |   2.2%     |  95% |      
    | Turtle        | 2807          |   2    |   0     |    N/A     |   N/A     |  N/A          
    | **TOTAL**     | **8260**     | **2**  |  **205**   |    **-**      |   **2.4%** | **95%** |



3. **Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?** *(If the dataset is a sample, then what is the larger set? Is the sample representative of the larger set (e.g., geographic coverage)? If so, please describe how this representativeness was validated/verified. If it is not representative of the larger set, please describe why not (e.g., to cover a more diverse range of instances, because instances were withheld or unavailable).)*

    It is a sample of all videos captured casually in an unconstrained environment such as zoo. It is not intended to be representative: the data was collected randomly in the order of visit. This data collection process was specifically designed as a proof-of-concept for the approaches mentioned in MBW paper -- to label articulated objects in the wild at scale.  




4. **What data does each instance consist of?** *(``Raw'' data (e.g., unprocessed text or images)or features? In either case, please provide a description.)* 
    

5. **Is there a label or target associated with each instance? If so, please provide a description.**
    


6. **Is any information missing from individual instances?** *(If so, please provide a description, explaining why this information is missing (e.g., because it was unavailable). This does not include intentionally removed information, but might include, e.g., redacted text.)*
    


7. **Are relationships between individual instances made explicit (e.g., users' movie ratings, social network links)?** *( If so, please describe how these relationships are made explicit.)*
    

8. **Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?** *(If so, please provide a description of these splits, explaining the rationale behind them.)*
    


9. **Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?** *(If so, please provide a description.)*
    


10. **Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources (e.g., websites, tweets, other datasets)?** *(If it links to or relies on external resources, a) are there guarantees that they will exist, and remain constant, over time; b) are there official archival versions of the complete dataset (i.e., including the external resources as they existed at the time the dataset was created); c) are there any restrictions (e.g., licenses, fees) associated with any of the external resources that might apply to a future user? Please provide descriptions of all external resources and any restrictions associated with them, as well as links or other access points, as appropriate.)*
    


11. **Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential (e.g., data that is protected by legal privilege or by doctor-patient confidentiality, data that includes the content of individuals' non-public communications)?** *(If so, please provide a description.)*
    


12. **Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting, threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?** *(If so, please describe why.)*
    
13. **Does the dataset relate to people?** *(If not, you may skip the remaining questions in this section.)*
    


14. **Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?** *(If so, please describe how these subpopulations are identified and provide a description of their respective distributions within the dataset.)*


15. **Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?** *(If so, please describe how.)*
    

16. **Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way (e.g., data that reveals racial or ethnic origins, sexual orientations, religious beliefs, political opinions or union memberships, or locations; financial or health data; biometric or genetic data; forms of government identification, such as social security numbers; criminal history)?** *(If so, please provide a description.)*
    


17. **Any other comments?**
    
    None.





## Collection Process


1. **How was the data associated with each instance acquired?** *(Was the data directly observable (e.g., raw text, movie ratings), reported by subjects (e.g., survey responses), or indirectly inferred/derived from other data (e.g., part-of-speech tags, model-based guesses for age or language)? If data was reported by subjects or indirectly inferred/derived from other data, was the data validated/verified? If so, please describe how.)*
    


1. **What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?** *(How were these mechanisms or procedures validated?)*
    


1. **If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy (e.g., deterministic, probabilistic with specific sampling probabilities)?**
    


1. **Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated (e.g., how much were crowdworkers paid)?**
    


1. **Over what timeframe was the data collected?** *(Does this timeframe match the creation timeframe of the data associated with the instances (e.g., recent crawl of old news articles)?  If not, please describe the timeframe in which the data associated with the instances was created.)*
    


1. **Were any ethical review processes conducted (e.g., by an institutional review board)?** *(If so, please provide a description of these review processes, including the outcomes, as well as a link or other access point to any supporting documentation.)*
    


1. **Does the dataset relate to people?** *(If not, you may skip the remaining questions in this section.)*
    


1. **Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?**
    


1. **Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?** *(If so, please describe (or show with screenshots or other information) how notice was provided, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, the exact language of the notification itself.)*
    


1. **Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?** *(If so, please describe (or show with screenshots or other information) how consent was requested and provided, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, the exact language to which the individuals consented.)*
    


1. **If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?** *(If so, please provide a description, as well as a link or other access point to the mechanism (if appropriate).)*
    
    N/A.


1. **Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects (e.g., a data protection impact analysis) been conducted?** *(If so, please provide a description of this analysis, including the outcomes, as well as a link or other access point to any supporting documentation.)*
    
    No. 


1. **Any other comments?**
    
    None.





## Preprocessing/cleaning/labeling


1. **Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done (e.g., discretization or bucketing, tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, SIFT feature extraction, removal of instances, processing of missing values)?** *(If so, please provide a description. If not, you may skip the remainder of the questions in this section.)*
    


1. **Was the "raw" data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data (e.g., to support unanticipated future uses)?** *(If so, please provide a link or other access point to the "raw" data.)*
    Yes, the original raw data is included in the distribution, in the folder `raw`.


1. **Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?** *(If so, please provide a link or other access point.)*
    


1. **Any other comments?**
    
    None.





## Uses


1. **Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?** *(If so, please provide a description.)*
    


1. **Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?** *(If so, please provide a link or other access point.)*
    


1. **What (other) tasks could the dataset be used for?**
    


1. **Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?** *(For example, is there anything that a future user might need to know to avoid uses that could result in unfair treatment of individuals or groups (e.g., stereotyping, quality of service issues) or other undesirable harms (e.g., financial harms, legal risks)  If so, please provide a description. Is there anything a future user could do to mitigate these undesirable harms?)*
    


1. **Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?** *(If so, please provide a description.)*
    


2. **Any other comments?**
    
    None.




## Distribution


1. **Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity (e.g., company, institution, organization) on behalf of which the dataset was created?** *(If so, please provide a description.)*
    
    Yes, the dataset is freely available.


1. **How will the dataset will be distributed (e.g., tarball  on website, API, GitHub)?** *(Does the dataset have a digital object identifier (DOI)?)*
    


1. **When will the dataset be distributed?**
    


1. **Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP) license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?** *(If so, please describe this license and/or ToU, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, any relevant licensing terms or ToU, as well as any fees associated with these restrictions.)*
    


1. **Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated with the instances?** *(If so, please describe these restrictions, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, any relevant licensing terms, as well as any fees associated with these restrictions.)*
    


1. **Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?** *(If so, please describe these restrictions, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, any supporting documentation.)*
    
    Not to our knowledge.


1. **Any other comments?**
    
    None.





## Maintenance


1. **Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?**
    


1. **How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?**


1. **Is there an erratum?** *(If so, please provide a link or other access point.)*
    


1. **Will the dataset be updated (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete instances')?** *(If so, please describe how often, by whom, and how updates will be communicated to users (e.g., mailing list, GitHub)?)*
    


1. **If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data associated with the instances (e.g., were individuals in question told that their data would be retained for a fixed period of time and then deleted)?** *(If so, please describe these limits and explain how they will be enforced.)*
    
    No.


1. **Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?** *(If so, please describe how. If not, please describe how its obsolescence will be communicated to users.)*
    
    Yes; all data will be versioned.


1. **If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?** *(If so, please provide a description. Will these contributions be validated/verified? If so, please describe how. If not, why not? Is there a process for communicating/distributing these contributions to other users? If so, please provide a description.)*
    
    Errors may be submitted via the bugtracker on github. More extensive augmentations may be accepted at the authors' discretion.


1. **Any other comments?**
    
    None.



